# POV
<p>This is a simple Win32 project originally created for this <a href="https://youtu.be/TdTMeNXCnTs">YouTube video</a> to illustrate an interesting persistence of vision effect that I first came across when messing around with simple graphics on a BBC micro back in the 80s. Repeatedly drawing random white lines on a black background in XOR (exlcusive OR) mode results in new lines appearing on a random field of black and white pixels. Although this means that the lines don't show up as lines, your eyes and brain still detect the switching of a line of pixels from one state to the other as a line appearing, just for a fraction of a second.</p>
<p>I wanted to mimic the big, crisp pixels of an old 8-bit computer with a low-resolution display. I tried it in Javascript and then in a UWP Windows app, but it wasn't easy to get the effect I wanted (or perhaps I just didn't find the right technique).</p>
<p>In Win32, it's easy - I just create a low-resolution off-screen display context (DC), draw my lines etc on that and then copy it to the main window of the app using <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/wingdi/nf-wingdi-stretchblt">StretchBlt</a> which does exactly what I wanted - a perfectly enlarged copy of the smaller bitmap with perfectly crisp edges to all the enlarged pixels.</p>
<p>This version is updated for this follow-up <a href="https://youtu.be/MuVqbnEXXIg">YouTube video</a>. This version is much more complete, with a configuration dialog available allowing on-the-fly adjustment of the screen resolution, line width, line colour, and more.
<p>The animation starts as soon as the app launches. Press F to open the configuration dialog; from there you can start/stop the animation, clear the screen, etc. When focus is on the main window, you can press L to draw a single random line or M to press multiple (10) lines, press S to start the animation. Press C to toggle the cube, N to toggle the line and T to toggle the text. Press E to toggle whether the background is erased on each new frame of the animation. Press R to reset everything (stop the animation and clear the screen).</p>
